root: add AI_POLICY.md (#23481)
goauthentik/authentik: AI_POLICY.md

> # AI Usage Policy

Reviewer: This frames the policy only as it's usage, but this document reflects more requirements for AI assisted submissions. Perhaps

```suggestion
# AI-Assisted Contributions Policy
```

> The authentik project welcomes community contributions, but has strict rules for AI usage:

Reviewer: This feels slightly defensive. "strict rules" sets a punitive tone before explaining the reason. Perhaps

```suggestion
authentik welcomes community contributions, including AI-assisted contributions, as long as contributors understand, review, and take responsibility for what they submit.
```

> - **All AI usage in any form must be disclosed.** You must state the tool you used (e.g. Claude Code, Cursor, Amp) along with the extent that the work was AI-assisted.

Reviewer: In Any Form is too broad as it includes things like spellcheck, asking claude to explain an error, Copilot generating a variable name, and more. Perhaps framing this more towards::

> You must disclose AI assistance when AI generated, rewrote, or materially shaped submitted code, documentation, tests, issues, discussions, or design proposals.

> - **All AI usage in any form must be disclosed.** You must state the tool you used (e.g. Claude Code, Cursor, Amp) along with the extent that the work was AI-assisted.

Reviewer: I feel like the tool ame might be less important than the role it played. For example, one year ago you might say Cursor, but that's autocomplete only (probably the best one on the market even today); vs CC which is full blown vibe coding (Or this might not matter anymore). Mabye go along the line of descrie what was ai assisted and how it was reviewed

> - **The human-in-the-loop must fully understand all code.** If you can't explain what your changes do and how they interact with the greater system without the aid of AI tools, please do not contribute these changes to this project.

Reviewer: fully understand all code *they submit*. I doubt anyone except Jens really understands all the mechanics and the greater systems, especially if it's an external contributor

> - **The human-in-the-loop must fully understand all code.** If you can't explain what your changes do and how they interact with the greater system without the aid of AI tools, please do not contribute these changes to this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The human-in-the-loop must fully understand all code.** If you cannot explain what your changes do, why they are correct, and how they affect the relevant parts of authentik without AI assistance, do not submit them.
```

> - **Issues and discussions can use AI assistance but must have a human-in-the-loop.** This means that any content generated with AI must have been reviewed _and edited_ by a human before submission. AI is often overly verbose, with noise that distracts from the main point. Humans must do their research and trim this down.

Reviewer: This feels repetitive of the previous bullet; furthermore: that human in the loop concept feels a bit buzzwwordy

> - **Issues and discussions can use AI assistance but must have a human-in-the-loop.** This means that any content generated with AI must have been reviewed _and edited_ by a human before submission. AI is often overly verbose, with noise that distracts from the main point. Humans must do their research and trim this down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Issues and discussions can use AI assistance but must have a human-in-the-loop.** This means that any content generated with AI must have been reviewed _and edited_ by a human before submission. AI is often overly verbose, with noise that distracts from the main point. Contributors are expected to verify claims, include relevant context, and remove generic or speculative content.
```

I like the intent, but feels slightly patronizing wording-wise. And the concept of do your research sounds like a scolding, so why not make it action-based

- **No AI-generated media is allowed (art, images, videos, audio, etc.).** Text and code are the only acceptable AI-generated content.

> - If a code contribution or discussion appears to be entirely AI-driven and lacking human judgement, the maintainers will close the issue/PR/discussion.

Reviewer: "appears" andd "human jugdement" feels subjective, it's not really bad, because we as maintainers need discression, but perhaps give examples? Such as:

> Examples include unexplained large diffs, invented APIs, irrelevant changes, generic issue reports, repeated AI-generated replies, or contributors being unable to answer review questions.

> These rules apply to all external contributions to authentik. Maintainers use AI tools at their discretion; as an internal team, the maintaners are already constantly discussing their work with each other and checking in as humans, having already proven their understanding of the code.

Reviewer: https://tenor.com/view/inglorious-bastards-bravo-bravo-gif-21621579

Reviewer: As much as I love this, it feels like "rules for thee, not for me". Not that I would change it, that being said

> These rules apply to all external contributions to authentik. Maintainers use AI tools at their discretion; as an internal team, the maintaners are already constantly discussing their work with each other and checking in as humans, having already proven their understanding of the code.

Reviewer: I feel like we need a better distinction of what is a maintainer. Perhaps saying all authentik employees?

> These rules apply to all external contributions to authentik. Maintainers use AI tools at their discretion; as an internal team, the maintaners are already constantly discussing their work with each other and checking in as humans, having already proven their understanding of the code.

Reviewer: Also, typo in maintainers `maintaners`

## There are Humans Here

> Please remember that authentik is maintained by humans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentik is maintained by people with limited time and attention.
```

This goes more towards the burden we face

> Every discussion, issue, and pull request is read and reviewed by humans (and sometimes machines, too). It is a boundary point at which people interact with each other and the work done. It is disrespectful and unscalable to approach this boundary with low-effort, unqualified work, since it puts the burden of validation on the maintainer.

Reviewer: Ehhh machines is cute, but vage. (What machines do we even have to review PRs? CI? Does that really count?)

**Our reason for the strict AI policy is not due to an anti-AI stance**, but instead due to the number of highly unqualified AI-driven contributions. A small minority misusing these tools creates an unscalable problem for maintainers.

> In a perfect world, AI would produce high-quality, accurate work every time. But today, that reality depends on careful consideration and usage by the human driver of the AI. Since AI is instead best as _producing code quickly_, we have to have strict rules in place to protect the project and maintainers' limited time.

Reviewer: > Since AI is instead best as _producing code quickly_, we have to have strict rules in place to protect the project and maintainers' limited time.

Not a big fan of this. AI is not just for producing code quickly. It's also useful for a plethora of use cases, refactoring support, debugging, exploration, migrating 200 integration docs in a sensible amount of time.
